
When we suspect that an email is phishing, we will know what we should do and what the analysis  process should be like.

Here are the key questions we need to answer when checking headings during a Phishing analysis:

· Was the email sent from the correct SMTP server?
· Are the data "From" and "Return-Path / Reply-To" the same?


-- Was the email sent from the correct SMTP server --

We can check the "Received" field to see the path followed by the mail. The mail is "101[.]99.94.116" from the IP address server.

If we look at who is sending the mail ("sender"), we see that it came from the domain Letsdefend.io (From: "Jack <info@letsdefend.io>

So under normal circumstances, "letsdefend.io" should use, "101[.]99.94.116" to send mail. To confirm this situation, We can query the MX servers actively used by "letsdefend.io"

"mxtoolbox.com" helps by showing you the MX servers used by the domain you searched.

If we look at the image above, the "letsdefend.io" domain uses Google addresses as an email server. So there is no relationship with the emkei[.]cz or "101[.]99.94.116" addresses.

In this check, it was determined that the email did not come from the original address, but was spoofed.


-- Are the data "From" and "Return-Path / Reply-To" the same --

Except in exceptional cases, we expect the sender of the e-mail and the person receiving the responses to be the same.

Returning to the e-mail all we have to do is compare the email addresses in the "From" and "Reply-to" fields. 

From: "Jack" <info@letsdefend.io>
Reply-To: info.letsdefend123722@gmail.com

As you can see, the data is different. In other words, when we want to reply to this e-mail, we will send a reply to the gmail address below. Just because this data is different doesn't always mean it's definitely a phishing email, we need to consider the event as a whole. In other words, in addition to this suspicious situation, if there is a harmful attachment, URL or misleading content in the e-mail content, we can understand that the e-mail is phishing. In the continuation of the training, we will analyze the data in the body part of the e-mail.

